README.md, before:

# Zalo for Linux (Unofficial Port)

## Information

**THIS IS NOT USING THE ZALO WEBSITE,IT IS PORTED DIRECTLY FROM THE ZALO MAC DESKTOP CLIENT**
YOU CAN'T CALL

This project is an unofficial port of the MacOS version of Zalo to Linux. The porting process involved extracting the `.dmg` file from the MacOS version and locating the `app.asar` file in the directory, which is typically found in `/Applications/YourAppName.app/Contents/Resources`. The following steps were taken:

1. Extracted `app.asar` with the command:
    ```bash
    asar extract app.asar app
    ```
2. Navigated to the extracted directory and ran Zalo using Electron version 22.3.27. Note that using newer versions of Electron result in errors. The command to run Zalo is:
    ```bash
    electron .
    ```

Additionally, `install.sh` is used to add a tray icon using Python.

Working on Nobara 39 KDE Plasma,Ubuntu 22.04 XFCE4

![Screenshot_20240809_053634](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cad8e69c-a5ea-47a5-bfba-7f75bba9ca4f)
![Screenshot_20240809_054034](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f145e10a-10f9-4bd2-a91e-24f06f0f9bf3)

![Screenshot_20240809_053806](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cb7674e3-a856-42a9-9b78-c4ca93fd6f3b)
![Screenshot_20240809_053944](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/781ddbd0-9404-4666-ab77-eeb8f8596a7a)



## Installation

Python is required to run the tray icon script.

To install Zalo for Linux, you can choose one of these two:

***Recommended***
```bash
sh -c "$(curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/realdtn2/zalo-linux-unofficial/main/install_curl.sh)"
```

or

```bash
git clone https://github.com/realdtn2/zalo-linux-unofficial
cd zalo-linux-unofficial
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```
Zalo will be installed to ~/.local/share/Zalo

## Fixes

***Python3: Namespace AppIndicator3 not available***
```bash
sudo apt install gir1.2-appindicator3-0.1
```
***[855265:0809/185712.193181:FATAL:setuid_sandbox_host.cc(157)] The SUID sandbox helper binary was found, but is not configured correctly. Rather than run without sandboxing I'm aborting now. You need to make sure that /home/ubuntu/.local/share/Zalo/electron-v22.3.27-linux-x64/chrome-sandbox is owned by root and has mode 4755.***
```bash
sudo chown root $HOME/.local/share/Zalo/electron-v22.3.27-linux-x64/chrome-sandbox
sudo chmod 4755 $HOME/.local/share/Zalo/electron-v22.3.27-linux-x64/chrome-sandbox
```

## Bugs

There will be some bugs, as I don't have an understanding of how electron work, I won't be able to fix any bugs.

Commit message:

debug: Task 7 investigation - comprehensive logging and error handling for message sync

README.md, after:

# Zalo for Linux (Unofficial Port)

## Information

**THIS IS NOT USING THE ZALO WEBSITE,IT IS PORTED DIRECTLY FROM THE ZALO MAC DESKTOP CLIENT**
YOU CAN'T CALL

This project is an unofficial port of the MacOS version of Zalo to Linux. The porting process involved extracting the `.dmg` file from the MacOS version and locating the `app.asar` file in the directory, which is typically found in `/Applications/YourAppName.app/Contents/Resources`. The following steps were taken:

1. Extracted `app.asar` with the command:
    ```bash
    asar extract app.asar app
    ```
2. Navigated to the extracted directory and ran Zalo using Electron version 22.3.27. Note that using newer versions of Electron result in errors. The command to run Zalo is:
    ```bash
    electron .
    ```

Additionally, `install.sh` is used to add a tray icon using Python.

Working on Nobara 39 KDE Plasma,Ubuntu 22.04 XFCE4

![Screenshot_20240809_053634](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cad8e69c-a5ea-47a5-bfba-7f75bba9ca4f)
![Screenshot_20240809_054034](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f145e10a-10f9-4bd2-a91e-24f06f0f9bf3)

![Screenshot_20240809_053806](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cb7674e3-a856-42a9-9b78-c4ca93fd6f3b)
![Screenshot_20240809_053944](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/781ddbd0-9404-4666-ab77-eeb8f8596a7a)



## Installation

Python is required to run the tray icon script.

To install Zalo for Linux, you can choose one of these two:

***Recommended***
```bash
sh -c "$(curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/realdtn2/zalo-linux-unofficial/main/install_curl.sh)"
```

or

```bash
git clone https://github.com/realdtn2/zalo-linux-unofficial
cd zalo-linux-unofficial
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```
Zalo will be installed to ~/.local/share/Zalo

## Fixes

***Python3: Namespace AppIndicator3 not available***
```bash
sudo apt install gir1.2-appindicator3-0.1
```
***[855265:0809/185712.193181:FATAL:setuid_sandbox_host.cc(157)] The SUID sandbox helper binary was found, but is not configured correctly. Rather than run without sandboxing I'm aborting now. You need to make sure that /home/ubuntu/.local/share/Zalo/electron-v22.3.27-linux-x64/chrome-sandbox is owned by root and has mode 4755.***
```bash
sudo chown root $HOME/.local/share/Zalo/electron-v22.3.27-linux-x64/chrome-sandbox
sudo chmod 4755 $HOME/.local/share/Zalo/electron-v22.3.27-linux-x64/chrome-sandbox
```

## Known Limitations

### Message Synchronization (Mobile to Desktop)

⚠️ **Message sync from mobile devices to desktop is not functional** in this Linux port.

**Issue**: The message sync feature's initialization chain is broken or disabled. When attempting to sync, the app shows an error: "Message sync interpreter not initialized."

**Root Cause**: The sync controller never initializes during app startup, likely due to:
- Server-side restrictions for Linux clients
- Incomplete MacOS → Linux port
- Missing initialization hooks in the ported code

**Workarounds**:
- ✅ Real-time messaging works when app is open
- ✅ Messages sent from desktop are delivered normally
- ✅ Use mobile app for accessing message history
- ✅ Use Zalo web version for better sync support

**Technical Details**: See `TASK-7-FINAL-ANALYSIS.md` for complete investigation results.

### Voice/Video Calls

Voice and video call functionality has not been fully tested and may not work reliably.

## Bugs

There will be some bugs, as I don't have an understanding of how electron work, I won't be able to fix any bugs.
